negotiators have met in Paris to discuss
a deal between Israel and Hamas that
could see hostages released and an
extended ceasefire in the Gaza Strip
protesters in Israel have been ramping
up the pressure on the government to
bring home the
hostages Israeli officials described the
talks as constructive but the Office of
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says
there are significant gaps between the
two sides and that discussions will
continue this week officials from Egypt
katar and Israel are taking part in the
us-led
talks and let's get more on that we are
joined by defense and Foreign Affairs
analyst Nava bin Mubarak Al tahani he
was director as the Qatari director of
Defense intelligence operations and as
the defense attache to the United States
He joins us now from Doha thank you so
much for joining us on the program um
when you see the current where things
currently stand how optimistic are you
about these talk talks in
Paris well I'm quite optimistic that the
uh any progress towards negotiation
would be successful however all parties
involved have to commit to the process
it's a hard process it's a long process
but commitment to that process is vital
for it to succeed and we know that the
CIA Chief William Burns met with his
Israeli and his Egyptian counterparts as
well as qatar's prime minister and they
are supposed to meet again this week
tell us a little bit more about the mix
of participants and what might be going
on behind closed
doors well obviously um from a qari
perspective they've made it very clear
that they they played very close to the
vest secrecy is important in any
negotiation for Success however if we
see past negotiations even in this
conflict as a guide it usually means
that it starts off with laying ground
rules understanding of the parameters of
negotiation moving forward to setting
reasonable goals and then executing that
and while that is being executed as in
the last round of negotiations the
Qatari foreign Ministry had an OP Center
set up to make sure that if there's any
snag or issue in implementing negotiated
agreements that it would re be resolved
in real time I think that would usually
be the same Moda sarandi moving forward
now details about the negotiation uh
obviously isn't clear right now but
hopefully if past uh results are any
proof of future hopes then we're very
hopeful what do you see as the main
hurdles now especially you know given
the role that Qatar has played in
facilitating um the Israel Gaza peace
talks given its channel of
communications with
Hamas well the main hurdle as I said is
commitment now we've seen some issues
internally in Israel uh the new
conservative government of Netanyahu has
been on one side asking for qatar's help
and wanting it and praising it and on
the other side criticizing and that is
not helpful moving forward now the later
statement I would say about on the part
of Hamas how about on the part of
hamas's commitment
well well the the proof is in the
pudding qar has proven that it is able
to negotiate release of hostages this is
not pie in the sky or imaginary or
theoretical issue this has seen actual
results it's only replicating those
successes that we're talking about right
now and I think if everyone's committed
and again the prime minister of Israel's
office just less than 12 hours ago said
that is it is quote unquote constructive
as it's going forward I think that makes
us hopeful but steadfastness and
commitment by the parties the
negotiators are only the negotiators the
parties whether Israel or Hamas have to
be steadfast in their commitments and
that only will guarantee a successful
negotiation thank you so much for your
time naash Al tahani defense and Foreign
Affairs analyst and former qari director
of Defense intelligence operations we
appreciate
it thank you
Sarah